<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 23: A Change of Tactics</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIII</span><span epub:type="subtitle">A Change of Tactics</span></h2>

<p>We pushed off without a word, and paddled out of sight of the beach.
A voice was approaching, hailing us. 'Hail back,' whispered Davies;
'pretend we're a galliot.'</p>

<p>'Ho-a,' I shouted, 'where am I?'</p>

<p>'Off Memmert,' came back. 'Where are you bound?'</p>

<p>'Delfzyl,' whispered Davies.</p>

<p>'Delf-zyl,' I bawled.</p>

<p>A sentence ending with 'anchor' was returned.</p>

<p>'The flood's tearing east,' whispered Davies; 'sit still.'</p>

<p>We heard no more, and, after a few minutes' drifting, 'What luck?'
said Davies.</p>

<p>'One or two clues, and an invitation to supper.'</p>

<p>The clues I left till later; the invitation was the thing, and I
explained its urgency.</p>

<p>'How will <i>they</i> get back?' said Davies; 'if the fog lasts the
steamer's sure to be late.'</p>

<p>'We can count for nothing,' I answered. 'There was some little
steamboat off the depôt, and the fog may lift. Which is our quickest
way?'</p>

<p>'At this tide, a bee-line to Norderney by compass; we shall have
water over all the banks.'</p>

<p>He had all his preparations made, the lamp lit in advance, the
compass in position, and we started at once; he at the bow-oar where
he had better control over the boat's nose; lamp and compass on the
floor between us. Twilight thickened into darkness&mdash;a choking, pasty
darkness&mdash;and still we sped unfalteringly over that trackless waste,
sitting and swinging in our little pool of stifled orange light. To
drown fatigue and suspense I conned over my clues, and tried to carve
into my memory every fugitive word I had overheard.</p>

<p>'What are there seven of round here?' I called back to Davies once
(thinking of A to G). 'Sorry,' I added, for no answer came.</p>

<p>'I see a star,' was my next word, after a long interval. 'Now it's
gone. There it is again! Right aft!'</p>

<p>'That's Borkum light,' said Davies, presently; 'the fog's lifting.' A
keen wind from the west struck our faces, and as swiftly as it had
come the fog rolled away from us, in one mighty mass, stripping clean
and pure the starry dome of heaven, still bright with the western
after-glow, and beginning to redden in the east to the rising moon.
Norderney light was flashing ahead, and Davies could take his tired
eyes from the pool of light.</p>

<p>'Damn!' was all he uttered in the way of gratitude for this mercy,
and I felt very much the same; for in a fog Davies in a dinghy was a
match for a steamer; in a clear he lost his handicap.</p>

<p>It was a quarter to seven. 'An hour'll do it, if we buck up,' he
pronounced, after taking a rough bearing with the two lights. He
pointed out a star to me, which we were to keep exactly astern, and
again I applied to their labour my aching back and smarting palms.</p>

<p>'What did you say about seven of something?' said Davies.</p>

<p>'What are there seven of hereabouts?'</p>

<p>'Islands, of course,' said Davies. 'Is that the clue?'</p>

<p>'Maybe.'</p>

<p>Then followed the most singular of all our confabulations. Two
memories are better than one, and the sooner I carved the cipher into
his memory as well as mine the better record we should have. So, with
rigid economy of breath, I snapped out all my story, and answered his
breathless questions. It saved me from being mesmerized by the star,
and both of us from the consciousness of over-fatigue.</p>

<p>'Spying at Chatham, the blackguard?' he hissed.</p>

<p>'What do you make of it?' I asked.</p>

<p>'Nothing about battleships, mines, forts?' he said.</p>

<p>'No.'</p>

<p>'Nothing about the Ems, Emden, Wilhelmshaven?'</p>

<p>'No.'</p>

<p>'Nothing about transports?'</p>

<p>'No.'</p>

<p>'I believe&mdash;I was right&mdash;after all&mdash;something to do&mdash;with the
channels&mdash;behind islands.'</p>

<p>And so that outworn creed took a new lease of life; though for my
part the words that clashed with it were those that had sunk the
deepest.</p>

<p>'Esens,' I protested; 'that town behind Bensersiel.'</p>

<p>'Wassertiefe, Lotsen, Schleppboote,' spluttered Davies.</p>

<p>'Kilometre&mdash;Eisenbahn,' from me, and so on.</p>

<p>I should earn the just execration of the reader if I continued to
report such a dialogue. Suffice to say that we realized very soon
that the substance of the plot was still a riddle. On the other hand,
there was fresh scent, abundance of it; and the question was already
taking shape&mdash;were we to follow it up or revert to last night's
decision and strike with what weapons we had? It was a pressing
question, too, the last of many&mdash;was there to be no end to the
emergencies of this crowded day?&mdash;pressing for reasons I could not
define, while convinced that we must be ready with an answer by
supper-time to-night.</p>

<p>Meantime, we were nearing Norderney; the See Gat was crossed, and
with the last of the flood tide fair beneath us, and the red light on
the west pier burning ahead, we began insensibly to relax our
efforts. But I dared not rest, for I was at that point of exhaustion
when mechanical movement was my only hope.</p>

<p>'Light astern,' I said, thickly. 'Two&mdash;white and red.'</p>

<p>'Steamer,' said Davies; 'going south though.'</p>

<p>'Three now.'</p>

<p>A neat triangle of gems&mdash;topaz, ruby, and emerald&mdash;hung steady behind
us.</p>

<p>'Turned east,' said Davies. 'Buck up&mdash;steamer from Juist. No, by
Jove! too small. What is it?'</p>

<p>On we laboured, while the gems waxed in brilliancy as the steamer
overhauled us.</p>

<p>'Easy,' said Davies, 'I seem to know those lights&mdash;the <i>Blitz</i>'s
launch&mdash;don't let's be caught rowing like madmen in a muck sweat.
Paddle inshore a bit.' He was right, and, as in a dream, I saw
hurrying and palpitating up the same little pinnace that had towed us
out of Bensersiel.</p>

<p>'We're done for now,' I remember thinking, for the guilt of the
runaway was strong in me; and an old remark of von Brüning's about
'police' was in my ears. But she was level with and past us before I
could sink far into despair.</p>

<p>'Three of them behind the hood,' said Davies: 'what are we to do?'</p>

<p>'Follow,' I answered, and essayed a feeble stroke, but the blade
scuttered over the surface.</p>

<p>'Let's wait about for a bit,' said Davies. 'We're late anyhow. If
they go to the yacht they'll think we're ashore.'</p>

<p>'Our shore clothes&mdash;lying about.'</p>

<p>'Are you up to talking?'</p>

<p>'No; but we must. The least suspicion'll do for us now.'</p>

<p>'Give me your scull, old chap, and put on your coat.'</p>

<p>He extinguished the lantern, lit a pipe, and then rowed slowly on,
while I sat on a slack heap in the stern and devoted my last
resources of will to the emancipation of the spirit from the tired
flesh.</p>

<p>In ten minutes or so we were rounding the pier, and there was the
yacht's top-mast against the sky. I saw, too, that the launch was
alongside of her, and told Davies so. Then I lit a cigarette, and
made a lamentable effort to whistle. Davies followed suit, and
emitted a strange melody which I took to be 'Home, Sweet Home,' but
he has not the slightest ear for music.</p>

<p>'Why, they're on board, I believe,' said I; 'the cabin's lighted.
Ahoy there!' I shouted as we came up. 'Who's that?'</p>

<p>'Good evening, sir,' said a sailor, who was fending off the yacht
with a boathook. 'It's Commander von Brüning's launch. I think the
gentlemen want to see you.'</p>

<p>Before we could answer, an exclamation of: 'Why, here they are!' came
from the deck of the <i>Dulcibella</i>, and the dim form of von Brüning himself
emerged from the companion-way. There was something of a scuffle
down below, which the Commander nearly succeeded in drowning by the
breeziness of his greeting. Meanwhile, the ladder creaked under fresh
weight, and Dollmann appeared.</p>

<p>'Is that you, Herr Davies?' he said.</p>

<p>'Hullo! Herr Dollmann,' said Davies; 'how are you?'</p>

<p>I must explain that we had floated up between the yacht and the
launch, whose sailors had passed her a little aside in order to give
us room. Her starboard side-light was just behind and above us,
pouring its green rays obliquely over the deck of the <i>Dulcibella</i>,
while we and the dinghy were in deep shadow between. The most studied
calculation could not have secured us more favourable conditions for
a moment which I had always dreaded&mdash;the meeting of Davies and
Dollmann. The former, having shortened his sculls, just sat where he
was, half turned towards the yacht and looking up at his enemy. No
lineament of his own face could have been visible to the latter,
while those pitiless green rays&mdash;you know their ravaging effect on
the human physiognomy&mdash;struck full on Dollmann's face. It was my
first fair view of it at close quarters, and, secure in my background
of gloom, I feasted with a luxury of superstitious abhorrence on the
livid smiling mask that for a few moments stooped peering down
towards Davies. One of the caprices of the crude light was to
obliterate, or at any rate so penetrate, beard and moustache, as to
reveal in outline lips and chin, the features in which defects of
character are most surely betrayed, especially when your victim
smiles. Accuse me, if you will, of stooping to melodramatic
embroidery; object that my own prejudiced fancy contributed to the
result; but I can, nevertheless, never efface the impression of
malignant perfidy and base passion, exaggerated to caricature, that
I received in those few instants. Another caprice of the light was to
identify the man with the portrait of him when younger and
clean-shaven, in the frontispiece of his own book; and another still,
the most repulsively whimsical of all, was to call forth a strong
resemblance to the sweet young girl who had been with us yesterday.</p>

<p>Enough! I shall never offend again in this way. In reality I am much
more inclined to laugh than shudder over this meeting; for meanwhile
the third of our self-invited guests had with stertorous puffing
risen to the stage, for all the world like a demon out of a
trap-door, specially when he entered the zone of that unearthly
light. And there they stood in a row, like delinquents at judgement,
while we, the true culprits, had only passively to accept
explanations. Of course these were plausible enough. Dollmann having
seen the yacht in port that morning had called on his return from
Memmert to ask us to supper. Finding no one aboard, and concluding we
were ashore, he had meant to leave a note for Davies in the cabin.
His friend, Herr Böhme, <i>'the distinguished engineer,'</i> was anxious
to see over the little vessel that had come so far, and he knew that
Davies would not mind the intrusion. Not at all, said Davies; would
not they stop and have drinks? No, but would we come to supper at
Dollmann's villa? With pleasure, said Davies, but we had to change
first. Up to this point we had been masters of the situation; but
here von Brüning, who alone of the three appeared to be entirely at
his ease, made the <i>retour offensif</i>.</p>

<p>'Where have you been?' he asked.</p>

<p>'Oh, rowing about since the fog cleared,' said Davies.</p>

<p>I suppose he thought that evasion would pass muster, but as he spoke,
I noticed to my horror that a stray beam of light was playing on the
bunch of white cotton-waste that adorned one of the rowlocks: for we
had forgotten to remove these tell-tale appendages. So I added:
</p>

<p>
'After ducks again'; and, lifting one of the guns, let the light
flash on its barrel. To my own ears my voice sounded husky and
distant.</p>

<p>'Always ducks,' laughed von Brüning. 'No luck, I suppose?'</p>

<p>'No,' said Davies; 'but it ought to be a good time after sunset&mdash;'</p>

<p>'What, with a rising tide and the banks covered?'</p>

<p>'We saw some,' said Davies, sullenly.</p>

<p>'I tell you what, my zealous young sportsmen, you're rash to leave
your boat at anchor here after dark without a light. I came aboard to
find your lamp and set it.'</p>

<p>'Oh, thanks,' said Davies; 'we took it with us.'</p>

<p>'To see to shoot by?'</p>

<p>We laughed uncomfortably, and Davies compassed a wonderful German
phrase to the effect that 'it might come in useful'. Happily the
matter went no farther, for the position was a strained one at the
best, and would not bear lengthening. The launch went alongside, and
the invaders evacuated British soil, looking, for all von Brüning's
flippant nonchalance, a rather crestfallen party. So much so, that,
acute as was my anxiety, I took courage to whisper to Davies, while
the transhipment of Herr Böhme was proceeding: 'Ask Dollmann to stay
while we dress.'</p>

<p>'Why?' he whispered.</p>

<p>'Go on.'</p>

<p>'I say, Herr Dollmann,' said Davies, 'won't you stay on board with us
while we dress? There's a lot to tell you, and&mdash;and we can follow on
with you when we're ready.'</p>

<p>Dollmann had not yet stepped into the launch. 'With pleasure,' he
said; but there followed an ominous silence, broken by von Brüning.</p>

<p>'Oh, come along, Dollmann, and let them alone,' he said brusquely.
'You'll be horribly in the way down there, and we shall never get any
supper if you keep them yarning.'</p>

<p>'And it's now a quarter-past eight o'clock,' grumbled Herr Böhme from
his corner behind the hood. Dollmann submitted, and excused himself,
and the launch steamed away.</p>

<p>'I think I twig,' said Davies, as he helped, almost hoisted, me
aboard. 'Rather risky though&mdash;eh?'</p>

<p>'I knew they'd object&mdash;only wanted to make sure.'</p>

<p>The cabin was just as we had left it, our shore clothes lying in
disorder on the bunks, a locker or two half open.</p>

<p>'Well, I wonder what they did down here,' said Davies.</p>

<p>For my part I went straight to the bookshelf.</p>

<p>'Does anything strike you about this?' I asked, kneeling on the sofa.</p>

<p>'Logbook's shifted,' said Davies. 'I'll swear it was at the end
before.'</p>

<p>'That doesn't matter. Anything else?'</p>

<p>'By Jove!&mdash;where's Dollmann's book?'</p>

<p>'It's here all right, but not where it should be.' I had been reading
it, you remember, overnight, and in the morning had replaced it in
full view among the other books. I now found it behind them, in a
wrenched attitude, which showed that someone who had no time to spare
had pushed it roughly inwards.</p>

<p>'What do you make of that?' said Davies.</p>

<p>He produced long drinks, and we allowed ourselves ten minutes of
absolute rest, stretched at full length on the sofas.</p>

<p>'They don't trust Dollmann,' I said. 'I spotted that at Memmert
even.'</p>

<p>'How?'</p>

<p>'First, when they were talking about you and me. He was on his
defence, and in a deuce of a funk, too. Böhme was pressing him hard.
Again, at the end, when he left the room followed by Grimm, who I'm
certain was sent to watch him. It was while he was away that the
other two arranged that rendezvous for the night of the 25th. And
again just now, when you asked him to stay. I believe it's working
out as I thought it would. Von Brüning, and through him Böhme (who is
the 'engineer from Bremen'), know the story of that short cut and
suspect that it was an attempt on your life. Dollmann daren't confess
to that, because, morality apart, it could only have been prompted by
extreme necessity&mdash;that is, by the knowledge that you were really
dangerous, and not merely an inquisitive stranger. Now <i>we</i> know his
motive; but they don't yet. The position of that book proves it.'</p>

<p>'He shoved it in?'</p>

<p>'To prevent them seeing it. There's no earthly reason why <i>they</i>
should have hidden it.'</p>

<p>'Then we're getting on,' said Davies. 'That shows they know his real
name, or why should he shove the book in? But they don't know he
wrote a book, and that I have a copy.'</p>

<p>'At any rate he <i>thinks</i> they don't; we can't say more than that.'</p>

<p>'And what does he think about me&mdash;and you?'</p>

<p>'That's the point. Ten to one he's in tortures of doubt, and would
give a fortune to have five minutes' talk alone with you to see how
the land lies and get your version of the short cut incident. But
they won't let him. They want to watch him in our company and us in
his; you see it's an interesting reunion for you and him.'</p>

<p>'Well, let's get into these beastly clothes for it,' groaned Davis.
'I shall have a plunge overboard.'</p>

<p>Something drastic was required, and I followed his example, curious
as the hour was for bathing.</p>

<p>'I believe I know what happened just now,' said I, as we plied rough
towels in the warmth below. 'They steamed up and found nobody on
board. "I'll leave a note," says Dollmann. "No independent
communications," say they (or think they), "we'll come too, and take
the chance of inspecting this hornets' nest." Down they go, and
Dollmann, who knows what to look for first, sees that damning bit of
evidence staring him in the face. They look casually at the shelf
among other things&mdash;examine the logbook, say&mdash;and he manages to push
his own book out of sight. But he couldn't replace it when the
interruption came. The action would have attracted attention <i>then,</i>
and Böhme made him leave the cabin in advance, you know.'</p>

<p>'This is all very well,' said Davies, pausing in his toilet, 'but do
they guess how we've spent the day? By Jove, Carruthers, that chart
with the square cut out; there it is on the rack!'</p>

<p>'We must chance it, and bluff for all we're worth,' I said. The fact
was that Davies could not be brought to realize that he had done
anything very remarkable that day; yet those fourteen sinuous miles
traversed blindfold, to say nothing of the return journey and my own
exploits, made up an achievement audacious and improbable enough to
out-distance suspicion. Nevertheless, von Brüning's banter had been
disquieting, and if an inkling of our expedition had crossed his mind
or theirs, there were ways of testing us which it would require all
our effrontery to defeat.</p>

<p>'What are you looking for?' said Davies. I was at the collar and stud
stage, but had broken off to study the time-table which we had bought
that morning.</p>

<p>'Somebody insists on coming by the night train to somewhere, on the
25th,' I reminded him. 'Böhme, von Brüning, and Grimm are to meet
the Somebody.'</p>

<p>'Where?'</p>

<p>'At a railway station! I don't know where. They seemed to take it for
granted. But it must be somewhere on the sea, because Böhme said,
"the tide serves."'</p>

<p>'It may be anywhere from Emden to Hamburg.' <i>[<a href="#map-b">See Map B</a>]</i></p>

<p>'No, there's a limit; it's probably somewhere near. Grimm was to
come, and he's at Memmert.'</p>

<p>'Here's the map... Emden and Norddeich are the only coast stations
till you get to Wilhelmshaven&mdash;no, to Carolinensiel; but those are a
long way east.'</p>

<p>'And Emden's a long way south. Say Norddeich then; but according to
this there's no train there after 6.15 p.m.; that's hardly "night".
When's high tide on the 25th?'</p>

<p>'Let's see&mdash;8.30 here to-night&mdash;Norddeich'll be the same. Somewhere
between 10.30 and 11 on the 25th.'</p>

<p>'There's a train at Emden at 9.22 from Leer and the south, and one at
10.50 from the north.'</p>

<p>'Are you counting on another fog?' said Davies, mockingly.</p>

<p>'No; but I want to know what our plans are.'</p>

<p>'Can't we wait till this cursed inspection's over?'</p>

<p>'No, we can't; we should come to grief.' This was no barren truism,
for I was ready with a plan of my own, though reluctant to broach it
to Davies.</p>

<p>Meanwhile, ready or not, we had to start. The cabin we left as it
was, changing nothing and hiding nothing; the safest course to take,
we thought, in spite of the risk of further search. But, as usual, I
transferred my diary to my breast-pocket, and made sure that the two
official letters from England were safe in a compartment of it.</p>

<p>'What do you propose?' I asked, when we were in the dinghy again.</p>

<p>'It's a case of "as you were",' said Davies. 'To-day's trip was a
chance we shall never get again. We must go back to last night's
decision&mdash;tell them that we're going to stay on here for a bit.
Shooting, I suppose we shall have to say.'</p>

<p>'And courting?' I suggested.</p>

<p>'Well, they know all about that. And then we must watch for a chance
of tackling Dollmann privately. Not to-night, because we want time to
consider those clues of yours.'</p>

<p>'"Consider"?' I said: 'that's putting it mildly.'</p>

<p>We were at the ladder, and what a languid stiffness oppressed me I
did not know till I touched its freezing rungs, each one of which
seared my sore palms like red-hot iron.</p>

<p>The overdue steamer was just arriving as we set foot on the quay.
'And yet, by Jove! why not to-night?' pursued Davies, beginning to
stride up the pier at a pace I could not imitate.</p>

<p>'Steady on,' I protested; 'and, look here, I disagree altogether. I
believe to-day has doubled our chances, but unless we alter our
tactics it has doubled our risks. We've involved ourselves in too
tangled a web. I don't like this inspection, and I fear that foxy old
Böhme who prompted it. The mere fact of their inviting us shows that
we stand badly; for it runs in the teeth of Brüning's warning at
Bensersiel, and smells uncommonly like arrest. There's a rift between
Dollmann and the others, but it's a ticklish matter to drive our
wedge in; as to <i>to-night,</i> hopeless; they're on the watch, and won't
give us a chance. And after all, do we know enough? We don't know why
he fled from England and turned German. It may have been an
extraditable crime, but it may not. Supposing he defies us? There's
the girl, you see&mdash;she ties our hands, and if he once gets wind of
that, and trades on our weakness, the game's up.'</p>

<p>'What are you driving at?'</p>

<p>'We want to detach him from Germany, but he'll probably go to any
lengths rather than abandon his position here. His attempt on you is
the measure of his interest in it. Now, is to-day to be wasted?' We
were passing through the public gardens, and I dropped on to a seat
for a moment's rest, crackling dead leaves under me. Davies remained
standing, and pecked at the gravel with his toe.</p>

<p>'We have got two valuable clues,' I went on; 'that rendezvous on the
25th is one, and the name Esens is the other. We may consider them to
eternity; I vote we act on them.'</p>

<p>'How?' said Davies. 'We're under a searchlight here; and if we're
caught&mdash;'</p>

<p>'Your plan&mdash;ugh!&mdash;it's as risky as mine, and more so,' I replied,
rising with a jerk, for a spasm of cramp took me. 'We must separate,'
I added, as we walked on. 'We want, at one stroke, to prove to them
that we're harmless, and to get a fresh start. I go back to London.'</p>

<p>'To London!' said Davies. We were passing under an arc lamp, and, for
the dismay his face showed, I might have said Kamchatka.</p>

<p>'Well, after all, it's where I ought to be at this moment,' I
observed.</p>

<p>'Yes, I forgot. And me?'</p>

<p>'You can't get on without me, so you lay up the yacht here&mdash;taking
your time.'</p>

<p>'While you?'</p>

<p>'After making inquiries about Dollmann's past I double back as
somebody else, and follow up the clues.'</p>

<p>'You'll have to be quick,' said Davies, abstractedly.</p>

<p>'I can just do it in time for the 25th.'</p>

<p>'When you say "making inquiries",' he continued, looking straight
before him, 'I hope you don't mean setting other people on his
track?'</p>

<p>'He's fair game!' I could not help saying; for there were moments
when I chafed under this scrupulous fidelity to our self-denying
ordinance.</p>

<p>'He's our game, or nobody's,' said Davies, sharply.</p>

<p>'Oh, I'll keep the secret,' I rejoined.</p>

<p>'Let's stick together,' he broke out. 'I shall make a muck of it
without you. And how are we to communicate&mdash;meet?'</p>

<p>'Somehow&mdash;that can wait. I know it's a leap in the dark, but there's
safety in darkness.'</p>

<p>'Carruthers! what are we talking about? If they have the ghost of a
notion where we have been to-day, you give us away by packing off to
London. They'll think we know their secret and are clearing out to
make use of it. <i>That</i> means arrest, if you like!'</p>

<p>'Pessimist! Haven't I written proof of good faith in my
pocket&mdash;official letters of recall, received to-day? It's one
deception the less, you see; for those letters <i>may</i> have been
opened; skilfully done it's impossible to detect. When in doubt, tell
the truth!'</p>

<p>'It's a rum thing how often it pays in this spying business,' said
Davies thoughtfully.</p>

<p>We had been tramping through deserted streets under the glare of
electricity, I with my leaden shuffle, he with the purposeful forward
stoop and swinging arms that always marked his gait ashore.</p>

<p>'Well, what's it to be?' I said. 'Here's the Schwannallée.'</p>

<p>'I don't like it,' said he; 'but I trust your judgement.'</p>

<p>We turned slowly down, running over a few last points where prior
agreement was essential. As we stood at the very gate of the villa:
'Don't commit yourself to dates,' I said; 'say nothing that will
prevent you from being here at least a week hence with the yacht
still afloat.' And my final word, as we waited at the door for the
bell to be answered, was: 'Don't mind what <i>I</i> say. If things look
queer we may have to lighten the ship.'</p>

<p>'Lighten?' whispered Davies; 'oh, I hope I shan't bosh it.'</p>

<p>'I hope I shan't get cramp,' I muttered between my teeth.</p>

<p>It will be remembered that Davies had never been to the villa before.</p>

</section></body></html>
